.\" -*- nroff -*-
.de Id
.ds Dt \\$4 \\$5
..
.Id $Id: l2tpns.8,v 1.4 2005-06-12 06:09:35 bodea Exp $
.TH L2TPNS 8 "\*(Dt" L2TPNS "System Management Commands"
.SH NAME
l2tpns \- Layer 2 tunneling protocol network server (LNS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B l2tpns
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR hostname ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B l2tpns
is a daemon for terminating layer 2 tunneling protocol (L2TP: RFC
2661) sessions.
.PP
Once running,
.B l2tpns
may be controlled by telnetting to port 23 on the machine running the
daemon and with the
.B nsctl
utility.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Detach from terminal and fork into the background. By default l2tpns
will stay in the foreground.
.TP
.B \-v
Increase verbosity for debugging. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
.BI "\-c " file
Specify configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-h " hostname
Force hostname to
.IR hostname .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/l2tpns/startup-config
The default configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/l2tpns/ip_pool
IP address pool configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/l2tpns/users
Username/password configuration for access to admin interface.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reload the config from disk and re-open log file.
.TP
.BR SIGTERM ", " SIGINT
Stop process.  Tunnels and sessions are not terminated.  This signal
should be used to stop l2tpns on a cluster node where there are other
machines to continue handling traffic.
.TP
.B SIGQUIT
Shut down tunnels and sessions, exit process when complete.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR startup-config (5),
.BR nsctl (8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jonathan McDowell <noodles@earth.li>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
