.\" -*- nroff -*-
.de Id
.ds Dt \\$4 \\$5
..
.Id $Id: nsctl.8,v 1.2 2004-11-17 15:08:19 bodea Exp $
.TH NSCTL 8 "\*(Dt" L2TPNS "System Management Commands"
.SH NAME
nsctl \- manage running l2tpns instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsctl
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR host [: port ]]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.I command
.RI [ arg " ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nsctl
sends commands to a running
.B l2tpns
process.  It provides both for the loading or unloading of plugins and
also the management of sessions via functions provided by those plugins.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debugging output.
.TP
.B \-h \fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fR]
The host running
.B l2tpns
that should receive the message.  By default the message is sent to
UDP port 1702 on
.BR localhost .
.TP
.B \-t \fItimeout\fR
Timeout in seconds to wait for a response from the server.
.SH COMMANDS
The first argument specifies the command to send to
.B l2tpns .
The following commands are as defined:
.TP
.BI "load_plugin " plugin
Load the named
.IR plugin .
.TP
.BI "unload_plugin " plugin
Unload the named
.IR plugin .
.TP
.B help
Each loaded plugin is queried for what commands it supports and the
synopsis for each is output.
.PP
Any other value of
.I command
(and
.I args
if any)
are sent to
.B l2tpns
as-is, to be passed to each plugin which registers a
.B plugin_control
function in turn (in which it may be acted upon).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR l2tpns (8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jonathan McDowell <noodles@the.earth.li>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
